Introduction to O3DE engine core (Programming Guide) (#1053)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/engine/_index.md

---

> description: Learn about Open 3D Engine's core systems and how you can extend the systems by programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the core systems of Open 3D Engine (O3DE) and how you can extend those systems by programming.
```
Add parenthetical "(O3DE)", per our [usual usage in metadata descriptions](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/style-guide/metadata/).

title: Open 3D Engine Core Programming
linktitle: Engine Core
weight: 600
---

> The *engine core* encompasses the source code, systems, and modules that underly **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** and its tools. All of these tools -- Editor, Asset Processor, Script Canvas, and so on -- work together to build an interactive 3D experience that uses modern rendering techniques and game play logic, and move your design from an empty scene to a fully polished project that you can deploy and share. In this section, you'll gain a deeper understanding in each part of the engine core and learn how you can expand O3DE's toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *engine core* encompasses the source code, systems, and modules that underlie **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** and its tools. All of these tools---**O3DE Editor**, **Asset Processor**, **Script Canvas**, and so on---work together to build an interactive 3D experience that uses modern rendering techniques and gameplay logic. Using these tools, you can take your design from an empty scene to a fully polished project that you can deploy and share. In this section, you'll gain a deeper understanding of each part of the engine core and learn how you can expand O3DE's toolkit.
```
* Spelling: "underlie"
* Punctuation: The two dashes render as an en dash. To set aside a text like this, use em dashes with no space on either side. (I'm not sure if three hyphens renders as an em dash, but that's the suggestion here.)
* Tool names: Per our [terminology guidelines](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/terminology/):
  * "Use **Bold** text for the first on-page reference of a tool...."
  * Use "**O3DE Editor**" in bold for the first on-page reference.
  * [For Asset Processor]: "Use bold text for the first on-page reference."
  * Apply the same rules to "Script Canvas".
* The second sentence is *very* long. Suggested edit to split it into two sentences.
* Changed "understanding in" to "understanding of"

> Start by learning how to navigate the O3DE directory structure and familiarize yourself with the core modules in the O3DE SDK (refer to [Overview of O3DE SDK](/docs/welcome-guide/key-concepts.md) in the Key Concepts). These modules are the entry points to all of the functionality in O3DE. As you proceed throughout this section, use an IDE of your choice to view the source code and refer to the [API Reference](/docs/api/) in the O3DE Documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by learning how to navigate the O3DE directory structure and familiarize yourself with the core modules in the O3DE SDK. For details, refer to [Overview of the O3DE SDK](/docs/welcome-guide/key-concepts/#overview-of-the-o3de-sdk) in the Key Concepts topic. The core modules are the entry points to all of the functionality in O3DE. As you proceed through this section, use an IDE of your choice to view the source code, and refer to the [API Reference](/docs/api/) in the O3DE Documentation.
```
* I recommend moving the parenthetical cross-reference link into its own sentence. IMO, that looks much cleaner than putting it in parentheses at the end of a long sentence.
* The cross-reference link text refers to a section, but the link doesn't include the anchor. Revise to use the anchor link. (Note that I haven't tested it as revised.)
* Consider adding a comma after "view the source code" so that it doesn't read as "use an IDE of your choice to...refer to the API Reference...."

Depending on the part of the engine that you want to develop, there are different learning tracks that you can follow. While each learning track may be unique to your case, the following will get you started on some common developments:

- Developing a component
  
  - Component/Entity System
  
  - Event System
  
  - Introduction to C++ Programming
  
  - Programming for Component Development

- Developing a Gem
  
  - Gem Modules
  
  - Introduction to C++ Programming
  
  - Programming for Gem Development

- Developing an Atom Renderer feature
  

>   - Atom Renderer Developer Guide

Author: To resolve this, I updated the last two paragraphs. The first one talks about common knowledge, and the second one talks about specific learning paths. I also added links to the topics in the learning path.

>   - Atom Renderer Developer Guide

Author: I'm unsure about the the section titles I used, so feel free to make a suggestion, or if I should remove them completely.
